
## Scottish Government Covid-19 Modelling

### Exceedance

When cases, hospitalisations and deaths fall to low levels, as they did
in both summer 2020 and 2021, we need to find new ways to monitor trends
in the epidemic. One of the ways we can do this is to calculate whether
the number of confirmed infections (based on testing) in each area
exceeds the number that was expected, given the number recorded across
the country - this is called “exceedance”. An analysis of trends across
Local Authorities in Scotland has been developed by modellers at the
University of Warwick on behalf of the Scottish Government.

Numbers of positive tests recorded each day, adjusted for population of
each local authority and number of cases seen in preceding weeks, should
fall within a certain distribution of values, which will rise and fall
depending on the number of cases being seen nationally. Areas where the
number of positive test results rise above the upper 95th percentile of
this distribution may be at risk of seeing increased local transmission
of Covid and heightened vigilance may be required. Further information
is available in
[issue 12](https://www.gov.scot/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-modelling-epidemic-scotland-issue-no-12/)
of the Modelling the Epidemic series of reports.

### Other Covid-19 Modelling

This model is one of a
[series](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Ac19-modelling+org%3ADataScienceScotland+fork%3Atrue)
used by the Scottish Government during the pandemic to model the spread
and levels of Covid-19 in Scotland. Many of the results of these models
have been published in the [Modelling the
Epidemic](https://www.gov.scot/collections/coronavirus-covid-19-modelling-the-epidemic/)
series of reports.

If you have any questions regarding the contents of this repository,
please contact <sgcentralanalysisdivision@gov.scot>.

### Licence

This repository is available under the [Open Government Licence
v3.0](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).
